---
layout: post
title:  "The philosophy of kindness"
categories: blog
tags: kindness philosophy
---
*(Fair warning: This is a non-technical post in which I essentially state the obvious.)*

We've all gone through the experience of being new to something: a job, a business, a community, a project, a group of people or even a city or country. Anything from small and customary changes that happen every day to once-in-a-lifetime life/career turning points.

Everyone goes through these moments with different measures of excitement and apprehension, but those two feelings are always present.<!--more--> The former is great, but the latter leads to questions like:

- *Did I make the right decision?*
- *What if I'm not good enough for this?*
- *What if I screw up and let people down?*
- *What if I simply can't compute what I'm asked to do?*

Is there a way to not feel like this? Is there a way to magically embrace new things like an invencible superhero? No.

However, I honestly believe that a very simple principle can make everything a whole lot easier: kindness. Whether you're the new guy or someone onboarding the new guy, you can make a difference by being nice, friendly, warm and kind.

If you're new to something, don't be afraid to say so — it's okay to say things like *"I'm new to this"* or *"Sorry, I don't know how this works"*. Sometimes people fail to realise that some of the things they take for granted and consider obvious are completely new concepts to someone else, and by flagging that you're in that position should hint others to the fact that you could use some help.

If you're managing or supervising someone new, make an effort to make them feel welcome and valued. Things like *"Good job!"* or *"Thanks for doing that"* can go **a long way**. Saying *"I could use your help on this"* is a lot better than *"I need this done"*. Hell, even using a friendly emoji when you're assigning a task or asking for something can make a difference — don't forget that chat rooms or emails are not the best mediums to convey emotions, so you do have to go the extra mile to properly express yourself.

If you have a colleague that is new, remember that you've been there once. Be cool. Tell them a funny story about someone else's fuck up or share some inside tips on how to avoid the queues in the cafeteria.

If you meet someone that is new to your city or your country, tell them they're welcome and offer to help should they need it. It will mean the world to them.

I know this is all a massive cliché, but if we all do our bit it makes everyone's lives a little better.

Remember: be the <strike>change</strike> pull request you want to see in the world.<!--tomb-->